Scientific Calculator :
The calculator was written by Rolf Howarth in early 1996.
A fully featured scientific calculator with proper operator
precedence is implemented, including trig functions and
logarithms, factorials, 12 levels of parentheses, logs to base 2
(a handy function for information entropists!), bitwise logical
operators, hex, octal, binary and ASCII display.
The calculator is written in JavaScript and you are welcome to
view the JavaScript source (visible within the HTML page) for
personal educational purposes as long as you recognize that it
is copyrighted and not in the public domain. This calculator is
now available as part of Hummingbird's Enterprise Information
Portal. All enquiries regarding licensing the calculator should
be directed to Hummingbird Ltd.In most countries, students use calculators for schoolwork. There was
some initial resistance to the idea out of fear that basic arithmetic skills
would suffer. There remains disagreement about the importance of
the ability to perform calculations "in the head", with some curricula
restricting calculator use until a certain level of proficiency has been
obtained, while others concentrate more on teaching estimation
techniques and problem-solving. Research suggests that inadequate
guidance in the use of calculating tools can restrict the kind of
mathematical thinking that students engage in. Others have argued
that calculator use can even cause core mathematical skills to atrophy,
or that such use can prevent understanding of advanced algebraic
concepts.
There are other concerns - for example, that a pupil could use the
calculator in the wrong fashion but believe the answer because that was
the result given. Teachers try to combat this by encouraging the student
to make an estimate of the result manually and ensuring it roughly
agrees with the calculated result. Also, it is possible for a child to type in
−1 × −1 and obtain the correct answer '1' without realizing the principle
involved. In this sense, the calculator becomes a crutch rather than a
learning tool, and it can slow down students in exam conditions as they
check even the most trivial result on a calculator.
